---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Multiplayer Trivia Game
category: ruby
tags: [ 'ruby', 'rails' ]
---
<ul>
  <li>Rails 5.0 RC1 using PostgreSQL</li>

  <li>OAuth for Facebook sign-in and sharing capabilities</li>

  <li>Chartkick for player history graph</li>

  <li>jService API for Jeopardy questions</li>

  <li>Babel for ES6 transpiling</li>
</ul>

Rails' new WebSockets integration is called ActionCable, enabling real-time interactive web apps without having to add any third-party gems. Just merged into Rails master early this year, it was fun playing with the publish/subscribe functionality included with Rails 5.0 RC1 (released May 6, 2016). Until now, Rubyists would look to ports of Node's Socket.IO, other third-party libraries, or just rely on AJAX polling. Instead, ActionCable permits full WebSockets communication right out of the box.

Upon signing in through Facebook using OAuth, a user can create a private game and invite freinds, or make a public game and wait for users to join. All open public games are displayed in the main lobby and updated through a WebSockets channel to any users viewing the lobby. This allows continuous updating of the games list, appearing and disappearing immediately as the games are created and subsequently started. 

Once a game creator starts their game, players answer each trivia question simultaneously with live updates of opponents progress. Each question has a time limit, and the following question is triggered when all players submit an answer or the timer runs out. Points are awarded only to a correct answer and includes a time-multiplier to encourage fast gameplay. Leaderboards on the frontpage and lobby show real-time progress for the top 5 overall players of the day, updating for any viewers immediately as they score points.


Check it out deployed on [Heroku](http://tricksy-hobbit.heroku.com/){:target="_blank"}, or the source code on my [GitHub](https://github.com/samwoodson/tricksy-hobbit-public){:target="_blank"}.